>> Speaker 1: So I wanted to
show you two ways of doing this.
I showed you the interval way first,
because that's the easier way to do it.
And you are welcome to complete this
particular project using setInterval.
The new more modern way of doing things is
something called request animation frame.
And so what request animation frame does
is you're basically asking the browser,
next time you have a second, next time
you're not rendering something or
executing something,
run this for me, right?
And that's usually not immediately,
but it's usually
no more than about a millisecond away,
right, so the advantage of this is this
helps you with performance because you're
never forcing the browser to stop.
With set interval you're saying drop
everything and run this right now, right?
Whenever this interval is up,
you have to do it right now.
Which, it can be a problem if you're
trying to re-render something or
garbage collection is going on or any one
of these things that could be potentially
happening after that interval, okay?
So here I'm showing you
both of them side by side.
What's interesting is,
why is requestAnimationFrame so much lower
than setInterval, despite the fact
they're both running about every second?
Well something else that's really cool
that requestAnimationFrame does is,
if I'm playing your game, and
then I get up and go do something else.
Or change the tab and read my email, and
then I'm gonna come back to your game,
requestAnimationFrame is gonna pause,
okay, and
then when the user opens it back up,
it's gonna start going again.
Whereas with setInterval,
it does not matter.
It's still running there
in the backgrounds.
So that's another advantage
of requestAnimationFrame.
Now why is this a little
bit tougher to do?
So this top part right here,
lines 7 through 11,
this is roughly all the code that you
need to run, the interval, right.
Interval account, and then after every
second plus plus and then set that
to be the interior of it, right?
So that's roughly what I
was showing you before.
Let's show you what
requestAnimationFrame looks like.
So the first thing is I started down here,
requestAnimationFrame right there.
And then the first thing I
do is run again at, right?
So I'm letting the browser know,
run this again at this particular time.
So I immediately started by
saying run it now, right?.
And then here I asked,
if date.now is greater than run again at,
right, so if I've gone past the time
when I expect to run this again,
then run this function body.
Otherwise don't run it.
Why is that?
Well, I'm just gonna show you
what happens if I take this out.
>> Speaker 1: So let's put this in here.
I just put this in here and paste it.
>> Speaker 1: So you can see there,
it goes a little bit faster.
>> Speaker 1: I'm not exactly
sure how fast that is.
It's more than a second though,
right, or it's going faster
than every once a second.
So when I say requestAnimationFrame,
it says,
literally the next time you have nothing
else to do, let me run my code again.
And so that's quite frequently, right.
So that's why you have to kind
of mitigate that by saying,
doing this run again thing.
So that's what I'm saying here, run again
at date now plus 1000 milliseconds, right?
So in 1000 milliseconds run this again.
So you can see here this
is gonna get run a lot.
Luckily for us date.now is pretty fast and
conditional checks are really fast, right?
So this is still performance
to do it this way.
You are welcome to do this either way.
I like to do this with
requestAnimationFrame but this
project is hard enough as is, if interval
speaks to you just go with it, okay.